feat: Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain (#256)
huggingface/blog: opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain.md

---
title: "Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/20_accelerate_library/accelerate_diff.png
---

<h1>
    Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published April 1, 2022.</small>

>     <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/opinion-classification-with-kili-technology-and-huggingface-autotrain.md">

Reviewer: nit: shorter URLs are always better IMO – maybe `opinion-classification-with-kili` or even just `kili`?

        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">

>     <a href="/sgugger">

Reviewer: please link to your user account (or to https://huggingface.co/Kili)

Reviewer: (and add an avatar!)

Reviewer: also you can add an Organization card to your org: https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/org-cards

        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>sgugger</code>
            <span class="fullname">Alper Balbay</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Introduction

Understanding your users’ needs is crucial in any user-related business. But it also requires a lot of hard work and analysis, which is quite expensive. Why not leverage machine learning then? With much less coding by using Auto ML.

> In this article, we will leverage [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/) and [Kili](https://kili.com/) to build an active learning pipeline for text classification. Active learning is a process in which you add labeled data to the data set and then retrain a model iteratively. Therefore, it is endless and requires humans to label the data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, we will leverage [HuggingFace AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain) and [Kili](https://kili.com/) to build an active learning pipeline for text classification. Active learning is a process in which you add labeled data to the data set and then retrain a model iteratively. Therefore, it is endless and requires humans to label the data. 
```

Reviewer: Also consider mentioning from the start of the post that Kili is a data annotation platform

> We will build our pipeline by using user reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. After that, we are going to categorize the reviews with the pipeline we built. Finally, we will apply sentiment analysis to the classified reviews. Then we will analyze the results, understanding the users’ needs and satisfaction will be much easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a concrete example use case for this article, we will build our pipeline by using user reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. After that, we are going to categorize the reviews with the pipeline we built. Finally, we will apply sentiment analysis to the classified reviews. Then we will analyze the results, understanding the users’ needs and satisfaction will be much easier.
```

## Why Analyze User Reviews?

Especially when you try to add new features or make changes to a product, it is important to know your customer base. People like to interact with the brand. And this interaction is a very valuable source of insight into the approach you take to develop your product.

When you try to find out if your feature or change works, you’ll want to analyze this interaction. This is already done when users rate your application or when you hand out polls. But most of the time, this is not a clear indicator of what you’re lacking or fine.

> Analyzing the feedback of your users or customers is vital, but it is almost impossible to analyze thousands of tweets or reviews by hand. This is why we use machine learning, to ease our burden.

Reviewer: i would remove or trim down this section as I expect our community to already understand the interest of building ML

## AutoTrain with HuggingFace

Automated machine learning is a term for automating a machine learning pipeline. It also includes data cleaning, model selection, and hyper-parameter optimization too. We can use HuggingFace’s [transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/auto) for automated hyper-parameter searching. Hyper-parameter optimization is a really difficult and time-consuming process.

> We can build our pipeline by using transformers and other powerful APIs, it is also possible to fully automate our pipeline with [AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autonlp). AutoTrain is a framework created by Hugging Face that is built on many powerful APIs like transformers, [datasets](https://github.com/huggingface/datasets) and [inference-api](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/trainer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we can build our pipeline ourselves by using transformers and other powerful APIs, it is also possible to fully automate this with [AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain). AutoTrain is built on many powerful APIs like transformers, [datasets](https://github.com/huggingface/datasets) and [inference-api](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/trainer).
```

Kili is a commercial tool but you can also create a free developer account to try Kili’s tools. You can learn more from the [pricing](https://kili-technology.com/pricing/) page.

## Project

We will work on an example of review classification, along with sentiment analysis, to get insights about a mobile application.

I have extracted around 40 thousand reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. We will [annotate the review texts](https://kili-technology.com/blog/text-annotation-in-machine-learning-an-overview/) in this dataset step by step. And then we’re going to build a pipeline for review classification. In the modeling, the first model will be prepared with AutoTrain. Then we will also build a model without using AutoTrain. 

All the code and the dataset can be found on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/alperiox/review-classification-kili-hf-automl) of the project.

## Dataset

Let’s start by taking a look at the raw dataset,

> ![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/1.png)

Reviewer: if possible, upload retina-friendly (higher resolution) screenshots

parser.add_argument('--first',
                    required=True,
                    type=str,
                    help='Path to first dataframe')
parser.add_argument('--second',
                    required=True,
                    type=str,
                    help='Path to second dataframe')

args = vars(parser.parse_args())

# set the kili connection up
API_KEY = os.getenv('KILI_API_KEY')
kili = Kili(API_KEY)

# read dataframes
df1 = pd.read_csv(args['first'])
df2 = pd.read_csv(args['second'])

# concating two of them should let us have duplicates of common elements
# then we can drop the duplicated elements without keeping any duplicates to get the different elements across the two dataframes
diff_df = pd.concat((df1, df2)).drop_duplicates(keep=False)
diff_ids = diff_df['id'].to_list()

# The changes should be given as an array that 
# contains the change for every single sample. 
# That’s why [‘TO_REVIEW’] * len(diff_df) is passed to status_array argument
kili.update_properties_in_assets(diff_ids,
                                 status_array=['TO_REVIEW'] * len(diff_ids))

print('SET %d ENTRIES TO BE REVIEWED!' % len(diff_df))
```

## Labeling

> When it comes to labeling, the platform has a built-in labeling interface which is pretty easy to use. Available keyboard shortcuts helped while I was annotating the data. I used the interface without breaking a sweat, there are automatically defined shortcuts and it simplifies the labeling. We can see the shortcuts by clicking the keyboard icon at the right-upper part of the interface, they are also shown by underlined characters in the labeling interface at the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have the source data uploaded, the platform has a built-in labeling interface which is pretty easy to use. Available keyboard shortcuts helped while I was annotating the data. I used the interface without breaking a sweat, there are automatically defined shortcuts and it simplifies the labeling. We can see the shortcuts by clicking the keyboard icon at the right-upper part of the interface, they are also shown by underlined characters in the labeling interface at the right.
```

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/4.png)

While labeling, I skipped some samples since I couldn't decide and some samples were very weird. In general, the process was way easier thanks to Kili’s built-in platform.

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/5.gif)

> ## Exporting the Labeled Data

Reviewer: I would suggest also adding to this section how to upload the annotated dataset to the datasets hub at hf.co/datasets

(it can be as simple as just creating a dataset repo and drag and dropping your CSV file to upload it)

And showcase that you get a dataset viewer automatically. cc @lhoestq @severo @osanseviero

Reviewer 2: Happy to give a hand if you need more details about the dataset viewer.

Reviewer 3: I'd be happy to help as well !

Author: Hi @osanseviero, I updated the PR. Do you still have comments?

# extract the labeled samples
df_ns.loc[:, 'label'] = df_ns['labels'].apply(extract_labels)
# The externalId column is returned as string, let’s convert it to integer
# to use as indices
df_ns.loc[:, 'content'] = dataset.loc[df_ns.externalId.astype(int), 'content']

# we can drop the `labels` column now
df_ns = df_ns.drop(columns=['labels'])

# we'll remove the multi-labeled samples
df_ns = df_ns[df_ns['label'] != 'MULTI_LABEL'].copy()

# also remove the samples with label specified in remove argument if it's given
if args['remove']:
    df_ns = df_ns.drop(index=df_ns[df_ns['label'] == args['remove']].index)

print(‘DATA FETCHING DONE')
print('DATASET HAS %d SAMPLES' % (len(df_ns)))
print('SAVING THE PROCESSED DATASET TO: %s' % os.path.abspath(output_path))

df_ns.to_csv(output_path, index=False)

print('DONE!')
```

## Modeling

I took an active learning based approach. I labeled the dataset while also actively fine-tuning a model, I tried to label around 50 samples per dataset version (it was much lower for the first versions). The number of samples is shown below:

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/6.png)

> Let’s try out the AutoTrain first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s try out AutoTrain first:
```

    val_dataset = TextClassificationDataset(val_set)
    test_dataset = TextClassificationDataset(test_set)

    # tokenize the datasets
    tokenized_train_set = train_dataset.map(tokenize)
    tokenized_val_set = val_dataset.map(tokenize)
    tokenized_test_set = test_dataset.map(tokenize)

    # finally return the processed sets
    return tokenized_train_set, tokenized_val_set, tokenized_test_set
```

Now we can perform the search! Let’s start by processing the data:

```python
tokenized_train_set, tokenized_val_set, tokenized_test_set = prepare_datasets(dataset)

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    'trial_results',
    evaluation_strategy="steps",
    disable_tqdm=True,
    skip_memory_metrics=True,
)

trainer = Trainer(
    args=training_args,
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
    train_dataset=tokenized_train_set,
    eval_dataset=tokenized_val_set,
    model_init=model_init,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
    )

best_run = trainer.hyperparameter_search(
                direction="maximize", 
                n_trials=n_trials,
                backend="ray",
                search_alg=search_algorithm,
                scheduler=scheduler

>                 )

Reviewer: indentation is a little bit weird in this block

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/16.png)

We can also see the sentiment predictions over defined categories below:

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/17.png)

We won't do a detailed analysis of the reviews, a basic understanding of potential problems would suffice. Therefore, it is enough to conclude simple results from the final data:

- It is understandable that most of the reviews about the subscription are negative. Paid content generally is not welcomed in mobile applications. 
- There are many negative reviews about the interface. This may be a clue for further analysis. Maybe there is a misconception about features, or a feature doesn't work as users thought. 
- People have generally liked the articles and most of them had good experiences. 

Important note about the plot: we haven't filtered the reviews by application version. When we look at the results of the latest current version (4.5), it seems that the interface of the application confuses the users or has annoying bugs.

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili-and-huggingface-autotrain/18.png)

## Conclusion

> Now we can use the pre-trained model to try to understand the potential shortcomings of the application. Then it would be easier to analyze a specific feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can use the pre-trained model to try to understand the potential shortcomings of the mobile application. Then it would be easier to analyze a specific feature. 
```

We used HuggingFace’s powerful APIs and AutoTrain along with Kili’s easy-to-use interface in this example. The modeling with AutoTrain just took 30 minutes, it chose the models and trained them for our use. AutoTrain is definitely much more efficient since I spent more time as I develop the model by myself.

> All the code, datasets, and scripts can be found in [github](https://github.com/alperiox/review-classification-kili-hf-automl). You can also try the [AutoTrain model](https://huggingface.co/alperiox/autonlp-user-review-classification-536415182).

Reviewer: maybe add this user to the `hf.co/kili` org
